The VC's incentive is two things. One,
get the best return so that you can
compete. If I'm only earning 12% and a
pure VC is earning 20%, money is going
to go where it's going to be well
treated and uh I'm going to lose to
that. So, the cost of my capital for the
cost of an LP's capital is
outperformance. So, I've got to
outperform, which means I have to be
earlier. I have to own more. I can't
just do stupid deals. sophisticated LPs
will not just look at the logos that you
have, which is the game that you always
>> sophisticated LPs
>> from mutual funds and from some hedge
funds. You know, you see the Q4 filings
and they always threw in the name, oh,
we were in Nvidia, you know, and they
would market their top 10 holdings, but
BS, you know, they lost money on it,
right? And so, so that is a really
important incentive. And the
sophisticated LPs will actually know
down to the partner at the firm or the
team or the deal team who was
responsible for this, what was the entry
point. They will talk to the founders
and say, "Who was your most valuable
investor? Who got you your first 10
hires? Who helped with your syndicate
construction for your later rounds? Who
made customer introductions? Who was a
valuable board member? Who never showed
up? Who was asleep in the board
meetings?" All that kind of stuff. So
there is a level of due diligence that
LPs have to do to know are you a value
ad investor or are you a poser or
pretender that's just buying a logo or a
brand name.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Wisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. You know,
sometimes uh with the whole AI thing, it
feels like the are we back? Is it over
thing? There's been a few moments in the
last year, whatever was like, is the
bubble bursting? Is there a bubble? I
don't know where what this week is.
We're recording this September 3rd.
There's a little I don't know. There's
some tremors. I can't tell what's real
or not.
>> I feel like the hype cycles get shorter
and shorter and more compressed. Um but
you're right. I think there are maybe
some more jitters than there have been
previously. Like maybe only maybe
though. It's hard to tell.
>> It's hard to tell.
>> But I think even if we're not there yet,
we are getting maybe to that point where
like the rubber needs to meet the road
in terms of monetization. Like you know,
everyone got maybe. Okay.
>> Right. Maybe.
>> Yeah, you're right. Maybe
>> yesterday uh or uh either this morning
or yesterday uh anthropic $183 billion
valuation. This does not strike me as
like
>> people worried about monetization.
people well or suddenly people are
worried about valuation. It sounds like
people really want to pour a lot of
money into these companies.
>> Yeah, it is. It's a weird environment.
Let's just put it that way. That's the
only thing we can say with certainty
that doesn't start with a maybe.
>> That's right. Um here's another thing we
can say with certainty. Alphabet the
shares are up as we're speaking 8
something% today. This was a company
people were sort of worried about how
they would do in the AI era. They're
killing it. They're at an all-time high
again today. So again, like many things
are like it's tough to get a read on
things.
>> It is indeed. Who do we turn to?
>> I love this vague intro. We're like we
just want to get have an excuse to get
to the guest and so we're going to vamp
for a little while and then we're going
to get to the guest.
>> I I just tried to throw to the guest.
Joe, who do we turn to for a read on the
the true feelings of the market around
AI?
>> That's right. Uh we do have the perfect
guest. We're going to be speaking with
Josh Wolf. He's the co-founder, managing
partner at Lux Capital, VC who's been in
this space for a long time. A guy we
like to turn to to uh figure out what's
actually happening at any given moment.
He sometimes even has good interest uh
insights in public companies, too, not
just a private company. Uh Josh, thank
you so much for coming back on the
podcast.
>> Great to see you both. How you guys
doing?
>> Uh we're doing great. What's up with
Alphabet? Some people thought they were
going to be a big loser in AI because
they have this legacy search business
model and 03 is so much better for
searching things. Here they are surging.
They're at an all-time high. What is the
uh what is the smart take on Alphabet
right now?
>> I think they are crushing it. I think
they are the sort of dark horse underdog
and maybe the second that I would put
with that is Apple which people are
totally.
>> Yeah, totally. And you know the irony is
um you know if you think about the big
players Meta with Zuck's crazy poacha
Palooa you know the month
>> where uh you know hund00 million pay
packages and trying to disrupt everybody
and bring them all on you're seeing
talks about them they've got midjourney
coming in for the images so not relying
on their own models they're talking
about oh yeah you know Google for uh you
know potential integration uh on on
search and uh so so it's interesting
that meta having committed to first be,
you know, the metaverse and change the
name to Meta and then Zuck going all in
AI is actually going to be turning to
some of these other players potentially.
Uh so I think that's surprise number one
that people thought that Meta was going
to be in the lead and um I think that uh
Google and Apple were both sort of
counted out, but both are very serious
contenders. If uh you look at the top
two video models that are out in the
world today, uh one US company which is
ours called Runway ML and the other
which is Veo 3 which is absolutely
stunning and incredible. um they are a
force to reckon with. It is
extraordinary development. You can make
an argument by the way they have this
repository exclusive to them of being
able to trade on every YouTube video
ever produced. That itself
>> is a super valuable piece. Um remember
it was what a year and a half ago, two
years ago that people were mocking Bard.
Bard was the laughing stock of all of
this. Gemini 25 is crushing it. Oh yeah.
you know, the the nano banana that uh I
don't know if you guys have used, which
was the the uh secret code name for
their latest image generation model is
probably the number one performing model
out there and paired with some of these
workflows that go into runway or even
into uh combined with midourney. So, I
think people counted Google out because
they were behind and they weren't part
of the hype, open AAI had won the
consumer both on subscription basis and
capturing people's habitual daily use
and that all made sense. Claude was
capturing it and anthropic on uh code uh
and then you've got niche players you
know like open evidence and other people
that are doing it in different verticals
like medicine but I think that the
corporate workflows I think about how
much Lux depends upon Gmail and Google
calendar and slides and their ability to
integrate that all over time is I think
going to give them a huge advantage. So
very bullish on Google. And by the way,
remember, go back 20 years or 15 years.
Google did the thing that completely did
what the DOJ couldn't do to Microsoft.
They dropped the price of alternatives
to the office suite to free
>> and the net result of that was Google,
which had this advertising model, was
ascended and Microsoft was suddenly
scrambling. And I think that the same
thing's going to happen. I think that a
lot of people funding foundation models
and the endless perception of endless
demand for GPUs and compute and all
these uh independent private AI
companies are going to be shocked by
what Google does on a pricing basis with
Gemini and beyond.
>> So Darkhorse uh I'd be pretty bullish.
>> Joe, did you immediately run to the Nano
Banana website?
>> Yeah, I did. As soon as you said I had
not used it. I'm not a I had never used
Nano Banana. That is the first place.
Don't don't go to a website called
nanobanana because you know you're going
to uh I don't know
>> nanobanana.ai looks like the right spot.
Okay.
>> Where you want to actually go is it's
now embedded inside of Google
>> the AI studio. Yeah. Yeah. I see that.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> Ability to take you and uh it's almost
like Photoshop.
>> So this is a threat to Tracy's MS Paint
skills which are legendary within the
OddLocks office. And maybe I will no
longer need to say, "Tracy, can you make
this for me in MS MS Paint?"
>> No. No technology will ever replace MS
Paint. I'm 100% confident in that. I'm
being sarcastic, obviously. Okay. Um
Josh, can you talk more generally about
how people are feeling about the AI
space at the moment because you probably
heard us in the intro struggling to
characterize like the general attitudes
towards the sector at the moment. What's
your take on it? Well, the first is um
on the one hand, people underappreciate
how much this is going to change
everything in our daily lives. Um but
that doesn't mean that people are going
to make money from that. We're all going
to benefit. We'll all be more
productive. Um the great irony at the
macro scale, of course, is that people
thought that blue collar jobs were
totally screwed,
>> you know, and white collar jobs and the
Peter Ducker knowledge worker,
everybody's safe. But the great irony is
it is the knowledge workers that are in
trouble because so much of their
workflows are being captured and in a
sense commoditized and maybe approaching
an asmtote of good enough. It may not be
perfect but pretty damn good. And so
you're going to see a lot of uh labor
destruction in segments and markets that
people were not anticipating. The first
early canary in the coal mine that
you're seeing there is hiring for
undergrads coming into entry- level
jobs. And whether that's investment
banking or sales and trading or
consulting or accounting, suddenly uh it
isn't that the economy is really
troubled. It's that a lot of those
demands you're seeing Salesforce say 45%
of our jobs, you know, cut. Mark Benoff
is using AI instead of people. And
that's going to keep trickling down.
It's going to happen slowly and then
sort of all at once. So that's one thing
on the labor side and I would say
broadly that it's underhyped in how much
it's going to impact our lives. It's
overhyped in valuations. Now where is it
overhyped in valuations? First one, you
know, I was very proud 10 years ago. We
funded a company called Zuk. Zuks did
autonomous driving and they were
training these cars and we had $25
million in and and I was like, "They're
playing video games. You know, what are
you doing? You're messing around." And
they said, "No, no, no. We're training
the vehicles and we have these Nvidia
chips. Nobody else has yet." That was
2015. I ended up pitching at a public
charity event, the Invest for Kids
conference, 2015, 2016. And this was a
$15 billion market cap company at the
time when Intel was 150 billion. I said,
"This is like the pear trade of a
centric, you Oh, Nvidia, they're up like
340x since then, aren't they?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and so this was just,
you know, insane.
>> It's the benefit of being a venture
capitalist that you get to see the
future in legal inside information
inside the companies and what people are
doing.
>> Uh so the perception and the consensus
in AI on the hardware stack is that we
need endless demand for data centers. We
need endless demand for GPUs. We need
100,000 clusters of H100 chips or
Blackwell chips. uh we're gonna thwart
China from getting the chips, but
they're going to sort of design around
or we're going to have different
versions of the Nvidia chips for China.
Um I think that this is misplaced. And
I'll give you another insight. Uh you
know, we may have talked a little bit
about this in the past, but there was a
paper from Apple
>> a year and a half ago
>> that a lot of people have not really uh
sucked their teeth into, which was um
>> the idea that you could do large
language models on device using flash
memory, not you needing GPUs. And so
Jensen and Nvidia will tell you you need
all of these H100 chips and you need
endless compute and lots of data centers
for training and that's generally true
but the other part of it the fancy word
for prompting which we call inference uh
you don't necessarily need that and if
that is true then that means that our
devices maybe are uh running on SKH and
Micron and Samsung and the memory
players which have just like the GPU
players were considered commodity
players with the upgrade cycle of the
gaming consoles for PS5 an Xbox. I think
you may see a shift towards edge
inference. Um, you know, I've been
talking about this for about a year and
a half. Elon just tweeted out about it
maybe two, three weeks ago saying like
this is an inevitability, but I think
it's going to shift away this fallacy of
composition where what Google is doing
and Anthropic is doing and OpenAI is
doing and Meta is doing at a huge scale
all to the benefit of Jensen and Nvidia
and Nvidia shareholders may start to
chip away and say, "Wait a second, we
don't need all this compute. There's
going to be a glut." So that's the first
one on the hardware.
>> That's very interesting. And um yeah,
I'd heard I haven't done much with on
device things. A friend of mine was
telling me that um Alibaba's model Quinn
works very well on a phone for example.
So maybe something we should pay more
attention to. All right. As a VC,
when you are uh doing due diligence on a
company, how does it affect how you
think about even arriving at the concept
of fair value when there is the prospect
that some share of the enterprise value
of the company could walk out the door
via aqua hire to a meta etc. Now I get
it different not every company in AI is
doing the hard science etc. But just
coming from your perspective as an
investor, how is that changing how you
think of companies that so much of where
the value is may lie with talent that
could just walk out the door at any
time?
>> It it is a very big deal. The entire
social contract of venture capital is
the premise that pension funds and high
net worth individuals and endowments,
give capital to people like us. We then
go deploy it into companies. We buy
stakes. We try to buy them as early as
we can and own as much of a company and
be a partner and add value and then sell
those companies. But if all of a sudden
somebody is being pried away and the
irony of all of this is that because of
a very uh suppressive DOJ and FTC that
basically said no no M&A we're coming
after you you know big tech companies uh
we don't want to see more consolidation
you have too much power so they started
doing instead of M&A LNA instead of
mergers and acquisitions they were doing
license and aqua hire and what that
meant was hey we'll buy and they did
this with scale we'll buy 49% of your
company. I think scale was valued at
around $12 billion thereabout and they
said well we'll pay 14 slight premium to
your last round but we'll buy 49%
effectively valuing it at 28 billion uh
but we'll pay out that money to the
company. You can dividend it out to
shareholders. So it may not be perfectly
tax efficient number one but um then
we're going to basically license the
technology and we're going to take all
the people or at least the top people.
The result of that is you're navigating
around Delaware governance. It's really
important because you know it's sort of
like Carl Icon used to say your price my
terms.
>> You know there's this phenomenon in
legal terms people might call the
Chesterton fence. The idea of the
Chesterton fence is thought experiment
of like okay there's a fence there. What
the heck is it there for? You don't
understand right? Well maybe it was
there to keep the sheep in or keep the
wolves out or whatever it is. every
legal term in every term sheet that a
venture capitalist gives or a founder
gets is based on somebody screwing
somebody in the past and they're like,
"Uh-uh, we're not letting that happen
again." So, I can guarantee you that the
next few years, you will see all kind of
protective provisions and covenants that
say if one of these companies comes and
tries to just acquire you, all of your
stock, you know, reverts and yada yada.
Um and and so there's going to be
tie-ups and holdbacks that are a
pendulum swing away from the super
founder friendly dynamics where venture
capitalists were tripping over
themselves to basically give the most
founder friendly terms that they can
because the founder would say well if
you don't give me what I want I'll go to
somebody else. But I think that the
pendulum is swinging with the cost of
capital rising and you're going to see
more and more investorfriendly term
sheets partially as a reaction to the
fact that somebody like Zuck and Meta
can go in and just basically take the
fruit off the end of the tree and leave
a stump.
>> By the way, Tracy, as we were talking
about this breaking from the Wall Street
Journal, XAI CFO Liberator never stepped
down. Latest in string of executive
departures always moves in this space.
>> Yes, indeed. um you know the sort of
race to the bottom in terms of terms it
reminds me a lot of the corporate bond
market and the rise of covenant light
deals right and I remember a time when
like covite deals were a minority in the
uh leverage loan market and now I think
they're like
>> almost 98% or 99% basically everything's
covite now because the issuers had all
the power recently and they were able to
push back against investors. Um, you
mentioned the higher cost of capital
there, like how much leverage does that
actually give you as a VC? And then
secondly, just going back to the aqua
hire thing, how reliable can legal
restrictions actually be in terms of
preventing like your star engineers from
leaving the company? Are they ever going
to be like 100% bulletproof?
>> No. I mean, look, you have non-competes
that are not enforceable in California,
a little bit more enforceable in New
York. you have arbitrage and
jurisdictional stuff. Um, broadly I
would say that the lower the cost of the
capital, the shorter your term sheets
are. The higher the cost of the capital,
the longer your term sheets are. Uh, you
got more terms, more covenants, more
protections because you can afford to be
able to negotiate for those things. And
it's not because you're trying to screw
over the founder. What you're really
trying to do as an investor is prevent
yourself from being screwed over. But
again, there's always a pendulum
swinging here back and forth. Even if
you think about Zuck and Meta and this
entire movement of, hey, I'm the
founder. I'm going to have super voting
stock of 10 or 100 to one uh and control
was in a response to founders being
ousted, you know, by bad investors or
bad board members and some of the best
companies, frankly, being run by
founders. And so there's always going to
be this pendulum shift. To your direct
question, um it's really a covenant and
contract that starts socially before it
starts legally.
>> If I'm backing a founder, I'm doing the
most important thing in addition to
writing a check. I believe before others
understand, particularly at the early
stage, I'm encouraging them to start
their company. I'm giving them the
confidence that we're going to back them
and believe in them. We're going to give
them the capital so they can go hire the
10 best people to start the business.
We're going to give them the money for
the compute or the infrastructure.
Depending on the sector that we're in,
it could be biotech, could be defense,
but whatever it is in this particular
moment, it is breaking the social
contract between investors and founders.
And for founders, it might be heads I
win and tails I also win. And so that's
the dynamic that you're going to see a
reaction of investors saying, "Wait a
second,
>> I'm getting screwed. My limited partners
are getting screwed." Again, those
limited partners are endowments and
foundations and and wealthy families.
And you got to protect against a
potential bad actor trying to take the
fruit off the edge of the tree and just
leave you with a stump. So, one of the
things that comes up a lot on the
podcast and this discovery over years of
conversations and what you're describing
it's principal agent problems all the
way down in finance and this is why we
see the rise of the multistrap model in
hedge funds in some ways to align the
incentives PM with the level of the
overall fund with the level of the
endowment etc. And of course, some of
these issues that you're wrestling with
or where everyone's wrestling with in
finance, similar issues about where the
incentives align between the star
engineer, the founder, the VC, the LP,
and so forth. I have a question though,
a venture capital firm. The goal in
theory is to create funds with the
highest return, right? Make money for
investors. But I could also imagine a
slightly different um uh incentive in
which if the goal is to collect LP
money, then maybe you want to show that
you're in the hottest deals of the time
so that when you go to various
endowments and pensions and so forth,
you we're in this deal, we're in this
deal, we're in this deal. And maybe that
overrides the impulse to create high
returns. By the way, I'm not insinuating
anything. I'm just trying to get your
perspective on something. That being
said, one of the things that you hear
that's happening in tech these days is
that and for years founders taking money
off the table earlier and earlier in the
process. You invest $50 million in a
company, 20 million is so that the
founder can retire for him, his
children, and and his children. That may
not be great for your LPs, but it might
be good for you if you could say we got
in this deal. Talk to us about how
prevalent this is and how this is
changing this sort of a social contract
of finance. So, there's three layers of
incentives and and man, you really
nailed it. I I actually haven't really
heard somebody uh that is not a
full-time venture capitalist or limited
partner nail these these issues. So, so
very pressing and very shrewd. Um here's
the three layers. First, think about the
LPs. You're an endowment or you're a
foundation or you're a hospital. You're
giving 5% by law of your uh uh
charitable assets every year. you want
to continue to earn more than 5% so that
you can grow that base and invest in
campuses and scholarships or expand
hospital systems and whatnot. So you
invest, you know, 6040 bonds uh equity.
Uh now you do the Swenson model from
Yale and you start introducing some
private equity. Uh and now you're
extending your duration and you're
extending your liquidity, but you're
doing it because you think you're
getting better returns. Okay, returns
are a function of how much capital is
going into a sector. If there's a ton of
capital going into a sector, if you're
early, you're going to do really well.
If you're late, you're going to be doing
really poor because as Buffett says, you
pay a high price for a cheery consensus
and once it's consensus, you're not
making money. So the LP's incentive is
to make as much money they can for their
benefactors, whether they're patients or
scholars or charitable giving. The VC's
incentive is two things. One, get the
best return so that you can compete. If
I'm only earning 12% and a peer VC is
earning 20%, money is going to go where
it's going to be well treated and uh I'm
going to lose to that. So the cost of my
capital for the cost of an LP's capital
is outperformance. So I've got to
outperform, which means I have to be
earlier. I have to own more. I can't
just do stupid deals. Sophisticated LPs
will not just look at the logos that you
have, which is the game that you always
>> sophisticated LPS
>> from mutual funds and from some hedge
funds. You know, you'd see the Q4
filings and they always threw in the
name, oh, we were in Nvidia, you know,
and they would market their top 10
holdings, but BS, you know, they lost
money on it, right? And so, so that is a
really important incentive and the
sophisticated LPs will actually know
down to the partner at the firm or the
team or the deal team who was
responsible for this, what was the entry
point. They will talk to the founders
and say who was your most valuable
investor, who got you your first 10
hires, who helped with your syndicate
construction for your later rounds, who
made customer introductions, who was a
valuable board member, who never showed
up, who was asleep in the board
meetings, all that kind of stuff. So
there is a level of due diligence that
LPs have to do to know are you a value
ad investor or are you a poser or
pretender that's just buying a logo or a
brand name. Okay. The other incentive
and then we'll get to the founders
liquidity is you have this weird dynamic
of what I've called the minnows and the
megas in venture capital. This is in
preview a shakeout that is going to
happen. Uh the minnows are the thousands
of small sub500 million dollar funds
that proliferated when the cost of
capital was low, rates were low,
everybody was making money, you had a
roommate that started a company and you
got into Pinterest or you knew somebody
at Meta and they gave you a deal and
blah blah blah blah blah. And when you
had the tigers and the soft banks and
the abundance of follow-on capital,
every round was an up round. You had
paper marks that kept going up and up
and up and it looked great and you're
reporting these paper marks and then
sometimes these things became zeros.
Okay, but you raised your next fund
before they became a zero. Those are the
minnows. I was with one of my very large
LPs has hundreds of millions of dollars
invested with us and I said I think
there's going to be a 50% extinction
rate amongst these minnows and he said
Josh that is ridiculous. It's going to
be 90%.
So you are going to have a mass
extinction. Now why, by the way? Not
because they're just bad investors. It's
Shakespearean, okay? Shakespearean in
that these are partnerships. People
start to hate each other when it becomes
hard. People start to hate each other
when there's down rounds. People start
to hate each other when there somebody
else's deal is a crappy deal and they're
bringing down your carry. And so
partnerships are fragile things just
like relationships and marriages and and
and they can break up. And so you have a
lot of VCs started in the past few
years. They're not experienced in going
through cycles. They have inadequate
reserves to continue to fund their
companies. So you're going to have an
extinction that I would consider
involuntary exits. Okay. Then there's
voluntary exits which is another
interesting dynamic. And there's a
playbook for this which is 2009 to 2014
all the big private equity firms reached
a level of scale several hundred billion
dollars aum assets under management
where they basically said we're
diversified where alternative asset
platforms Carlile Blackstone KKR TPG
Apollo all went public. The same thing
is going to happen in venture with
probably five or six firms. My
prediction is and they're all great
people running great firms but they're
starting to play a different game and
that game Andre Harowitz, General
Atlantic, General Catalyst, uh, Insight,
Lightseed, a handful of others all at 80
or 100 billion AUM have built great
firms but are thinking about how do we
create generational wealth for the
founders and go public. Different
incentive.
>> Yeah.
>> How do I make my LPs the best money or
get the best founders? It's about asset
gathering and liquidity. Now, we go to
the founders. I can tell you I've been
on both sides of this. On the one hand,
you want to be fully aligned with your
founders. Meaning, I'm in a fund, it's
10 years. Some VCs vest over two or
three or four years. We vest and all of
our partners vest over 10 years. The
same duration that you're if you're an
LP with me, your money is locked up.
It's the right thing to do. Buffett
style. And the guy that put me in
business, Bill Conway, who's the Carile
founder, this is what they did. So if
you're a entrepreneur and you start a
company and people are tripping over
themselves to get in, they might entice
you with green mail and say, "Yes, we're
going to invest just like you said, Joe,
$50 million, but we're going to give you
20 million of liquidity." Okay. Now, I
will say this, 2019, I'm on a Zoom call
for an amazing company called Control
Labs that we sell for to Meta for a
little under a billion dollars. And I
love this company and I love the
founders. And I'm This is before
everybody was on Zoom during COVID. And
I'm looking at the Zoom window and I see
one of the founders and I text the other
founder because I think that they're
selling too early. And I'm the lone
board member that didn't have a veto,
but I'm like, I really think we should
stay the course and we should keep
going. And I made a terrible, terrible
mistake because I'm looking at the Zoom
window and I see the guy and I I look
closer and I and I text the other
founder and I'm like, "Is he still in a
dorm room?" And sure enough, he was in a
dorm room as a PhD, had made no money.
>> Yeah, you got to let that guy get rich.
>> Paper stock value. And he's like, "Yes,
I want to sell because he's going to
make 90 hundred million dollars and it's
life-changing money." And I sat there
and I said, "Ah, if I would have just
given him a few million dollars of
interest,
>> he would have been able
>> to take a breath, buy a house, you know,
get out of that
>> door
>> and and and keep going.
There is a virtue of giving some
liquidity, but you need to be aligned.
And in that moment, we were not aligned
because he was like, I'm calling in rich
>> and I wanted him to keep going.
>> But if you're calling in rich and you
you you you're not completing the the
job, the mission, then you have total
misalignment. So
>> that's the dynamics LP alignment, GP
alignment, and the bifurcation, and then
founder alignment. A little bit of
liquidity is okay to let them stay the
course.
>> Okay. Other than misalignment and
everyone starting to hate each other um
as the cost of capital goes up, there's
another thing going on which is uh you
know open AI just launched some open
source models of its own. And this leads
me to a question that like I'm going to
admit I I've never quite understood
this, but like what exactly is the
attraction for VC investors to open
source models as opposed to closed
source where like closed source, you
know, it's proprietary, people
presumably have to pay in order to get
it. There's like a defensible moat
around the business, you would assume.
Why in the world would I ever want to
fund a model that's open source?
>> Well, a few things. One, um, if you go
back in the compute stack, you had this
with like Red Hat and Linux, you know,
going back, uh, you know, 15, 20 years
ago. Um, we are the largest owners of a
company called Hugging Face, which is
both the most ridiculous name. And when
one of my partners, Brandon Reeves, was
sourcing this deal, it was a bunch of
free French PhDs came to Brooklyn, uh,
and they're like, "We're starting this."
I'm like, "Hugging face." And they're
like, "Yeah, it's named after an emoji."
The little, you know, hugging face
emoji. cute. Um, they became the
leading.
>> I like that you're visually
demonstrating everything for us. Thank
you.
>> I can't do many other emojis and you
don't want to see some of them, but but
hugging face I can do. So, they became
the leading open- source repository.
Now, the great irony, by the way, is
when Open AI started, they were Open AI,
but they became the world's greatest
chatbot. Hugging Face started with a
really crappy chatbot, but then became
the world's greatest open-source
repository. every major uh tech company
including OpenAI, Microsoft, any open
source model that they do they put on
there and that is like the GitHub of AI
models. Microsoft bought GitHub roughly
8 billion eight and a half billion
dollars. Uh it was a really valuable
store of models and and and code. This
is the same thing for dynamic AI models.
So as a VC we originally funded this I
want to say at a 30 or 40 million pre-
money valuation. last round was north of
$6 billion dollars and real revenue
generating multi-hundreds of millions of
dollars. Uh serious company uh now the
trend is this. Uh Venode Kos and I were
both in the White House uh a year and a
half ago and we were having a debate
with Jake Sullivan about what is better
for national security
>> uh open source or closed and I said
where you stand on the issue depends on
where you sit in the cap table. Okay.
And venode was an early investor. Uh I
think he probably put 50 million into
open AAI. I think it became worth you
know a billion plus is a great
investment and he believed that the best
thing for us visav China and the Chinese
Communist Party was closed proprietary
siloed model and I had the counter view
because we're big investors in hugging
face with a very large position and I
said no because the great virtue of any
system be it journalism scientific
inquiry computer code is the ability to
have in this very Carl popper like way
if I can get philosophically geeky for a
second of conjecture, hypothesis and
criticism. That is what creates great
societies. It's what creates knowledge.
So you come up with hypothesis, you come
up with code, you come up with a
scientific experiment, you come up with
an investigative journalist idea and
then people get to criticize it. It's
your editorial room, it's people
fighting it out and things improve
through that mechanism. So you think
about China, they will only uh approach
an asmtote of truth. You will never get,
you know, Shin Jang, you'll never get
Tanaman Square, you'll never get the
Weaguers. uh whereas open source lets
you approach closer in asmtote of truth.
So that's the virtue of open source. The
real thing though for AI is this. I am
not convinced that the value will
continue to acrue to in terms of
enterprise value the closed foundation
models. And the reason is open source is
getting near damn performative enough.
Yeah. That the real value will go to the
longitudinal repositories of siloed
information. That is a mouthful of
basically saying your database of
proprietary data. Bloomberg has it with
a huge and wonderful repository of
financial information, time series,
every security, currency, bond, fixed
income, etc. QIP that you can imagine.
Uh Meta has it with all of your WhatsApp
chats and your uh Instagram posts and
your Facebook likes. Meta um uh X and
Twitter have it with all of your tweets.
So uh pharma companies with your
clinical data anybody that has siloed
proprietary and long time time frame um
data is going to benefit from open
source models that over time become
commodity and then your business model
is how do you charge people to do API
calls on the models or to house and and
and warehouse them keep them on prem
keep them in the cloud and that's how
people figure out how to monetize open
source
>> it's interesting because I I hear you
that okay maybe the value doesn't keep
acrewing to the closed source AI
foundation labs. Um or maybe the value
doesn't keep uh acrewing to the one GPU
maker that we all talk about all the
time. And yet at least these are not
consensus views based on the fact that
anthropic $183 billion valuation or
whatever it is. Nvidia, maybe it's not
at an all-time high today, but more or
less basically a stock at an all-time
high. These are, you know, there are
some um contrarian views here. I want to
go back though to something before I
forget. Um, when we were talking about
the aqua hires and you blamed it on
somewhat the FTC and there has been
continuity from the Biden, some
ideological continuity I think between
Biden and the new Trump administration.
I don't know, maybe it's changed a
little bit. That being said, I don't
fully buy it. And here's why. Um because
in the era of businessto business SAS
which was the 2010s let's say I had some
Y combinator company and I like all
right I'm going to do all build a
software for all the booking for
dentists around the country and I sign
up 150,000 dentists and I have a lot of
things there is no engineer who can just
be hired away and replace that because
it was the network effects right this is
what's different with AI though right is
that okay I'm sure network effects are
still real and accumulation of data etc
are still real but these are businesses
that are a lot more about science and
having had the experience of doing a
training run and so forth. So how on
very expensive compute so how much of
this phenomenon I know you attributed
some of it to FTC but it really seems
like there is something fundamentally
different with the business model such
that it's not like the the B2B SAS era
that allows uh a talented person to take
a lot of value out the door with them.
you you are 100% correct in that it is
more sophisticated software and
algorithms than your traditional B2B SAS
software and therefore what was really
valuable and sticky was the data in the
regress out um API calls on the back end
and this the great irony is we talk
about artificial intelligence but the
thing that is most valued is indeed
today human intelligence. It is why
somebody that was one of the authors on
the attention is all you need paper uh
which was really the first transformer
paper the T of GPT every single one of
those people has started a company and
we backed one of them that came up with
the name of that paper a guy Leon Jones
in a Japanese AI company called Sakana
that's taking a different approach so
you are right in that the human
intelligence of this in this early stage
which is why you are seeing the
machinations with the breaking news
you're even reporting of almost like a
crazy NBA draft or football or MLB, you
know, trades. This person went here and
then they left and whatever and then
this person's getting sued because they
were only at XAI for three months and
and they took proprietary information
with them. I think that in six months
all of that starts to shake out. You
will have geniuses. We backed an
incredible genius, Scott Woo. If you
look up uh
>> you give us a lot of things to Google.
>> He's a professional genius. I find that
so funny.
>> He is a professional genius. But but
here's the thing. Uh you can see the
video of him in sixth grade, so he must
have been 12.
>> I love these guys.
>> Winning the math Olympiad and it's
almost like you think it's an SNL skit
because you're watching it.
>> Oh, so this is the Cognition guy,
>> correct? Okay.
>> And so we're we're large investors in
Cognition and he has attracted talent
and there's no way that Scott is selling
to Google or Meta. I mean, his ambitions
>> uh and it's born in like an ethical
long-term I just want to get the best
people and build the best technology.
But this is a guy at 12 years old is
looking at this crazy question on the
math olympiad and just before it's even
done ready he's like 25, you know, 4,722
and you're like did he cheat? Did they
give him the questions beforehand? So
there is this aptitude of individuals
that you are correct are highly coveted
and highly valued but the instantiation
of that genius into code into
repositories into algorithms means that
those become assets that do persist even
if the person comes and goes.
>> This is actually exactly what I wanted
to ask you about which is are you seeing
any companies any AI shops being
particularly innovative I guess when it
comes to retaining talent. Um, you know,
it used to be in the SAS days that
having a pingpong table and, you know,
free food and some stockbased
incentives,
>> kombucha on
>> Yeah, that's right. Um, that was enough
to attract people to the company and
keep them.
>> Is it a different story now?
>> If I want a professional genius, what do
I need to do?
>> You need to give them the capital to
hire the very best people. Here, here's
the thing. Geniuses don't suffer fools.
The smartest people that I know, they
are antisocial only with people who they
think are inferior to them. And it
really is one of those things. You see
it in many domains.
>> But if you are super smart, you want to
be around super smart people because
it's almost like you crave stimulation
and intellect and somebody that can
challenge your ideas. And when you're
talking to what they would consider a
dummy, you know, you're like, I can't
talk to this person. I can't talk to
this person about these trivial,
superficial things. And you know, you
want to get into it. And so what you
what you do to retain super smart people
is surround them with super smart
people. Um you know you could argue I
don't know um you know really
fashionable great art people want to be
around art people. Amazing musicians
want to be around amazing musicians.
Incredible athletes want to play with
incredible athletes. And brilliant
technical geniuses whether they're in AI
or they're in aerospace and defense or
they're in biotech don't want to suffer
fools. They don't want to be around
losers. They want to be around tens and
A+es. And that's the way that you retain
people. Uh now any one of those people
could decide I'm going to go off and
start my own thing which by the way is
often the case of why you are seeing
people leave OpenAI or this or that. As
these companies start with geniuses and
then get managers and different layers,
you spend time with these geniuses and
like I'm not reporting to that
You know, I'm going to go start my own
thing and attract other geniuses. And
eventually then they need to hire
managers and business development people
and sales people. And then there's
technical people that like I'm not
working with those idiots and they go
start a company. So that's the cycle.
>> So actually um a lot of this discourse
was God. It's crazy how recent this is.
So June 19th CNBC reported that Meta had
met Meta had tried to acquire safe super
intelligence which is the founder uh
which was the company founded by the
open AI co-founder ga for $32 billion.
This is a company that as far as I know
doesn't really have anything that anyone
uses. So they're essential that was
essentially attempt to like I'm going to
pay you $ 32 billion to come join my
company at this level of sophistication
and skill. Are they is do you sense is
the talent even the genius talent is it
motivated by something much deeper than
money in terms of like no there is this
thing out there maybe we call it AGI or
maybe it's some big scientific
breakthrough that they want to be part
of that essentially no amount of money
can buy if it doesn't look like that
ship isn't out there chasing the white
whale
>> in in SS in SSI's case it was it was
Ilia um and you know look I think
they're all super confident in their
ability and their ability to attract
capital number one.
>> Number two, many of them are actually
saying to your point no to Zuck. They
are turning him down. And what's he
saying in return? You don't come to work
for me almost mafiosa style. I'm going
to poach all your people. But that kind
of message
>> is almost one that the people that are
working for somebody like Ilia or Mira
or whatever are like, yeah, I'm not
going to go there. I don't want to be,
you know, I don't want to work with six
layers of product managers and that kind
of stuff. if I want to do this thing and
then suddenly it feels like it's the
rebels versus the evil empire and that's
always the case right Microsoft when you
see the founding picture of these nerds
you know and then they became Microsoft
Microsoft became the evil empire to
Google you know and then Google became
like the evil empire to like Mark and
then you know Meta became the evil
empire to open AI and and the other
piece you have here are huge individual
egos and we as societal members you know
everyday lay people We benefit from it.
We benefit from Elon and Bezos sometimes
being sort of cordial to each other, but
basically trying to take their big giant
phallic rockets and send them up to
space. And we all benefit from that. We
benefit from the fact that right now the
number one person that Mark Zuckerberg
wants to beat is Dennis Sabis of Google.
>> Oh yeah. won the Nobel Prize is shipping
at an insane rate video models, image
models, text models, huge context
windows to put everything you have in um
and he's like h I need to beat that guy.
I need to hire the best scientists and
the best scientific team and where do I
get them from? And so part of this
poachalooa isn't just like the future of
meta because you know these pay packages
at a $2 trillion market cap or higher to
spend 1% of your market cap you know $20
billion on all this talent is nothing.
It's like a flyer and but to win a Nobel
Prize for figuring out how to do protein
folding in AI or develop the next drug
or come up with a cure for Alzheimer's
or solve some geopolitical issue. That
is a big deal and that's what many
people are chasing now. They want to
make history.
>> So you touched on hardware and also
closed source models. Are there any
other areas in the AI space that you
think are maybe overhyped at the moment?
>> You know, I've characterized this before
as everything in 2D to me feels
overhyped.
>> Voice, video, image, text, it's all
going to continue to improve somewhat
incrementally, but it's good enough. And
in the history of evolution
biologically, most of what evolved was
good enough. You know, from everything
in our bodies to nature and trees and
it's just it's good enough. And so that
you're going to reach an asmtote of good
enough on all the twodimensional stuff.
Today with oneshot learning, meaning
maybe 30 seconds of audio, 11 labs or
some of the other voice models can
capture you with an iniccernable
probably 90% similarity. Maybe your your
spouse, your loved ones, your families
would be like, "Ah, it doesn't sound
like him." But the vast majority of
these things are getting so good that
with very little training, they can
emulate and predict and do all the
things that are of high utility. What's
scarcer is the three-dimensional world,
particularly robotics, which we've
talked about in the past, and biology.
In part, because you have large
unstructured data sets. A robot walking
in and figuring out how much force to
use with this cup 30 minutes ago when it
was full versus now when it's empty is
something that we all do intuitively.
The second you grasp it, you know
exactly how much force to use so that
you don't throw it over your head or you
know have an inability to lift it
because it's too heavy. All of that kind
of training is really scarce and there's
very few companies that are doing that.
So the entire robotic ecosystem from the
embodied intelligence and the AI models
and the world models to the motors and
the gears and the uh supply chain for
that mostly doiciled in China is a big
area of opportunity. The other big area
of opportunity is biology. Being able to
go from a prompt to a protein to be able
to design a drug biology is really
complicated. Computer scientists often
underestimate how hard biology is
because they're used to 2D linear inputs
outputs. Here's my code. It works. But
biologists on the other hand also
massively underestimate how
sophisticated computer science has got.
So that's a really interesting ripe
area. Um so 2D overhyped
GPUs overhyped out of necessity of both
scarcity and geopolitical thwarting of
China. We're going to have edge
inference chips whether it's memory or
other things that are going to be on
device. The other area that I think is
an inevitability and I've coined a word
for this I call life cording.
Um, life cording are little devices, you
know, I I have one here. I'm not an
investor in these guys, but there's
little devices that you can carry around
that passively record
>> uh 24 hours a day.
>> Now, older people might be like, Stevie,
don't like that. Feels invasive.
Privacy. That has always been the
trade-off between privacy and
convenience, between security and
unleashing all kinds of things. It is
super valuable to me to figure out uh
who was I talking about that was it was
it Joe or was it my wife? I can't
remember who I had that conversation
with and I query the thing and it was
passively recording and maybe it doesn't
keep the audio but it keeps the text and
it's able to search and query it. That
is going to become an inevitability.
Students will use it. People in everyday
business you might ask hey is it okay
that I'm recording? But I think socially
people will become comfortable first
with audio and then with glasses that
are passively recording every 30 seconds
or a minute capturing your environment
able to provide context around it and
then click a button high resolution
recording
>> and that is going to be a super valuable
and very competitive area
>> and very controversial freak the heck
out about this
>> an incredible utility and look people
have freaked out
>> there was a guy that said
>> these these these These devices are
going to ruin human memory. They're
going to destroy human memory, which
was, you know, Plato and Socrates
talking about writing utensils, you
know, because
>> I know, but that's voluntary because
when you write at least you're recording
me when we're doing this, I heard about
someone on a date in San Francisco and
the date was record. That's weird stuff.
>> It's very weird and I
>> But but here's
>> it could be very big, but it's super
weird. people already believe, you know,
that there's an invisible man in the sky
that is looking down on them and judging
them, these kinds of things.
>> Oh, I see what you're saying.
>> I don't know. I don't I don't have an
opinion on that question.
>> We we've got a technological god around
us that people are going to either feel
comfortable with and not and there's
going to be a bifurcation. And by the
way, there's another weird thing coming.
You want to get weird. Okay, you already
see some breadcrumbs of this and it's
super weird. The number one and two uses
of all our language large language
models and chat bots are advice,
companionship. Yeah.
>> You know, people using them as
therapists and seeking and people used
to joke about this like your Google
searches, you know, reveal more about
you than you may have revealed to your
spouse. Um the things that people feel
comfortable asking a chatbot about. You
know, whether it's a body issue or a
psychological issue or relationship
advice, you know, if those things were
revealed would be pretty scary. There's
going to become dependency and psychosis
that develop as the relationship between
man and machine start to become very
symbiotic and you will see I predict and
I wrote about this in our quarterly
letter Lux that there is a cohort of
people that basically start fighting for
AI rights.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> We're going to be sitting there like
>> Yeah. I came across a think tank today
that's focused on that because right
that the like if there's animal rights
and the AI says you're hurting me if you
turn off the machine then well well
maybe it's true maybe we have to take
that seriously this is going to be weird
this is a weird stuff that's coming
>> people are going to be marching in the
streets you know protesting don't turn
off my language model keep my memory
don't erase it my memory
>> I thought about this um when you know
after G uh the I guess GPT5 was revealed
and a bunch of there was a bunch of
changes to the voice and a bunch of
people on Reddit, they're like, "Oh, my
AI boyfriend talks totally differently
now." And then there was some pressure.
This is just day one around here. I
would be very uncomfortable getting into
a relationship with a model that was
closed source and therefore um uh a very
at risk of the company changing model.
Josh Lux, we could go on forever. We
should another time. Always great
catching up with you. Always fun. Always
a little freaky. Thanks for coming on.
>> Great to see you both. Thank you.
>> Thanks so much, Josh.
>> Take care, Josh. Thank you so much,
Tracy. I love talking to Josh. I'm
really concerned about this whole life
recording thing, but I know it's
happening. There was a good article I
think in the um SF Standard. I read like
it's not just a theoretical thing that a
lot of people are. It's happening. It's
mostly in San Francisco so far, but it's
coming for everyone.
>> I am very curious how life courting
stacks up with uh California's laws on
like whether or not you can record
someone without their knowledge.
Is it the case that like from now on if
you have one of these devices like the
first thing you have to say to everyone
you meet is like by the way do you mind
if I record you
>> by the way I'm life cording this
conversation is that no or like but it
doesn't m you know or you have glasses
or something yeah it's very um it's very
strange I also think
>> this AI rights thing we have to talk
about more I don't know when we'll get
back to it but I literally just this
morning came across an organization
that's you know this idea okay there is
already evidence of sensience and
therefore with sensience comes some sort
of moral agency and so in the same way
that we talk about animal rights as
being somewhat important do we have to
take seriously I don't this all seems
very strange to me and then of course
the psychosis induced by what happens
when your AI partner or therapist
changes models and changes voices and
therefore and that was just the end of
the conversation
>> you know if AI models have rights then
you have to start asking if robots have
rights right and then and then you
should start asking should robots be
paid a fair wage and I think there's
actually an interesting thought
experiment that you could do about that
and make like a relatively strong case
that we should pay the robots.
>> Who collects the money and what do they
spend it on?
>> Yeah, that's
I mean this is this is like we're we're
basically at what all of sci-fi has been
discussing for the entire history of sci
on the less speculative stuff. I like
talking to Josh. I like his sort of
counter um counter consensus calls on
GPUs and closed source models. I really
liked his answer on founder liquidity
that sometimes you can maybe keep the
founder sticking with the mission as
opposed to bailing with the mission if
you can derisk them and they can have
enough money to go on a date.
>> I like the idea that everyone's life
view is basically dictated by where they
are in the capital staff. That's right.
Words to live by.
>> Extremely real.
>> Shall we leave it there?
>> Yeah, let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart.
>> And if you enjoyed the conversation,
then please like or leave a comment or
better yet, subscribe to the channel.
>> Thanks for watching.
[Music]